**The Cross of Christ\
**Luke 23:33****

Allan Steel

> Luke 23:33 And when they were come to the place, which is called
> Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the
> right hand, and the other on the left.

Why the Physical Cross Itself is COMPLETELY INSIGNIFICANT AND UNIMPORTANT
=========================================================================

Why the Physical Cross Itself (especially its form or shape) is NOT
important. And focusing on the cross as an image is unbiblical and
ultimately Satanic.

The Word "Cross\" itself: Stauros
---------------------------------

The Greek word *Stauros* translated \"cross\" itself does not imply any
particular form, nor even more than one piece of wood.

Patrick Fairbairn (Imperial Dictionary 1866) writes:

> The Greek word for cross *stauros* properly signified a stake, an
> upright pole, or piece of paling, on which anything might be hung, or
> which might be used in impaling a piece of ground. Modifications were
> made later.
>
> Even amongst the Romans the *crux* (from which our word \"cross\" is
> derived) appears to have been originally an upright pole, and this
> always remained the more prominent part.
>
> There were several kinds of death using a cross; this being sometimes
> accomplished by transfixing the criminal with a pole, sometimes with
> tying of hands and feet and sometimes with nails.
>
> Seneca \[Roman Philosopher in 1st C\] noted that he saw three
> different types of crosses and arrangements for execution by
> crucifixion.

Narrative in Gospels/Acts
-------------------------

Let us examine the description of the cross in the New Testament
narratives.

-   CRITICAL: the Gospels have only bare a narration of the events, with
    hardly any comment added, and with no sensationalism. There is no
    emotional and NO theological meaning attached to the narrative. So
    everything is very plain and literal.

-   The Gospel writers have no interest in giving any details on the
    form of the cross or any precise details on how the body was
    arranged in the actual crucifixion in their narratives.

    So we cannot assume and should never assert any such form/shape or
    waste time arguing about such things.

-   More AMAZINGLY: after the Gospels, whenever the crucifixion of
    Christ is mentioned in Acts, the word **TREE** alone is used:

    > Acts5:30 \[Peter to Chief Priests:\] The God of our fathers raised
    > up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree.
    >
    > Acts10:39 \[Peter to Cornelius:\] And we are witnesses of all
    > things which he did both in the land of the Jews, and in
    > Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree:
    >
    > Acts13:29 \[Paul preaching to Jews at Antioch Pisidia:\] And when
    > they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they took him down
    > from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre.

    *The last one is the most remarkable, because most of the Jews here
    are hearing the whole story of Jesus for first time; would they
    picture a \"Latin Cross\" when they listened to Paul? He is clearly
    interested in the Deut Hanging connection.*

    Peter's other reference is in his first Epistle:

    > 1Pet2:24 Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the
    > tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness:
    > by whose stripes ye were healed.

-   The Gospels and Acts are only narrative, while Epistles have
    theological commentary (to professed believers in churches) and
    ASSUME the readers know the narrative of the crucifixion and they
    never repeat it.

    So \"Cross\" is used in Gospel narrative (and only in the simple
    literal sense) but is never used in Acts (thus never again in any
    narrative) and is NEVER used in non-Pauline epistles or Revelation.

    E.g., John never uses \"cross\" in his epistles and Revelation but
    is more interested in **blood** (just like Hebrews), using the OT
    ritual for the symbolism. And as we just saw, Peter uses 'tree' 3
    TIMES and 'cross' ZERO TIMES!

-   Now \"cross\" is indeed used in the epistles of Paul several times,
    but is **always** used there in a **metaphorical and theological
    sense**: essentially it as used an abbreviation for the whole
    sacrificial death of Christ; most CRITICALLY, is NOT used to refer
    to the common PHYSICAL sufferings that any mere man would suffer in
    crucifixion.

-   So the Physical Cross and its form/shape is NOT important and
    totally insignificant. Repeating: \"The Cross\" as a term is NEVER
    used after the Gospels to refer to the actual physical wooden cross
    (it is only used metaphorically/theologically in Paul)!

Theological Use of 'Cross' in Paul's Epistles
---------------------------------------------

The word \"Cross\" (Greek *stauros*) is 11 times in Paul and never in
the other epistles. Again, Paul's use is never for narrative purposes
(he assumes that is familiar). So none of his use of the word is for the
literal \"cross\"! Let us look at key examples.

> 1Cor1:17--18 For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the
> gospel: not with wisdom of words, lest the **CROSS** of Christ should
> be made of none effect. For the preaching of the **CROSS** is to them
> that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power
> of God.
>
> 1Cor1:22--24 For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after
> wisdom: But we preach CHRIST CRUCIFIED, unto the Jews a
> stumblingblock, and unto the Greeks foolishness; But unto them which
> are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the
> wisdom of God.

Here \"the preaching of the CROSS\" is just shorthand for the preaching
of CHRIST CRUCIFIED, with all that means. The preaching of the cross
here is an offence or stumblingblock in 2 main ways:

1.  The Jews stumbled on their own self-righteousness:

    > Rom9:32--33 Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as
    > it were by the works of the law. For they stumbled at that
    > stumblingstone; As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a
    > stumblingstone and rock of offence: and whosoever believeth on him
    > shall not be ashamed.

    So they had no conception of the need of Messiah's **sacrificial
    death** for sin:

    > John6:51 I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any
    > man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that
    > I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the
    > world.

    They constantly only wanted one great sign to convince them:

    > John6:30 They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou
    > then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work?

    This is said in the same spirit as the later challenge: let him
    descend from the Cross that we may believe.

    When He said that they had to eat/drink His flesh/blood, they were
    offended in having to be joined to Him in His **Death** (so the
    'cross', i.e., the sacrificial death which happened to be achieved
    by the crucifixion was a huge stumbling to them.).

2.  They only expected the Messiah to be a Political King to deliver
    from the Romans.

    So the idea that the Messiah would die (and on a shameful cross) was
    inconceivable to them. huge stumblingblock. That generation could
    not accept the idea of the GLORIOUS ETERNAL Messiah dying:

    > John12:32--34 And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw
    > all men unto me. This he said, signifying what death he should
    > die. The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that
    > Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must
    > be lifted up? who is this Son of man?

    So \"Abideth for ever\" seemed to them to be contradicted by a DYING
    Messiah.

    In the same way, the disciples only expected a carnal/political
    Messiah. Even Peter stumbled on the offence of the Cross at first
    and rebuked Christ (after his grand confession):

    > Mat16:21--2 From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his
    > disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many
    > things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed,
    > and be raised again the third day. Then Peter took him, and began
    > to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this shall not
    > be unto thee.

    Similarly: John and James sitting on right hand (expected to sit on
    a literal throne in Jerusalem); the disciples on road to Emmaus
    (Jesus seemed to fail as a Prophet and King); wilt thou restore the
    kingdom \[Acts 1\]: they still expected some political Messiah to
    deliver them from the Romans.

Futhermore, in Galatians the expression \"OFFENCE OF CROSS\" refers to
the same salvation by works/ritualism stumblingblock (not the literal
cross!)

> Gal5:11 And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet
> suffer persecution? then is the offence of the **CROSS** ceased.
>
> Gal6:12--15 As many as desire to make a fair shew in the flesh, they
> constrain you to be circumcised; only lest they should suffer
> persecution for the **CROSS** of Christ. For neither they themselves
> who are circumcised keep the law; but desire to have you circumcised,
> that they may glory in your flesh. But God forbid that I should glory,
> save in the **CROSS** of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is
> crucified unto me, and I unto the world. For in Christ Jesus neither
> circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but a new
> creature.

When Paul here says that he will 'Glory in the Cross', he means that he
will glory in the way of salvation by Grace by Christ's sacrificial
death (which happened to be achieved through the Crucifixion), NOT the
literal cross!

Another example of the offence:

> Phi3:18 (For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell
> you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the **CROSS** of
> Christ:

Again: they are enemies of the MESSAGE of the gospel of grace. (It would
be absurd to take this literally: they are enemies of a piece of wood!)

Similarly, Heb 12 (despised the cross) is not on the mere sufferings or
the physical cross.

Focus on Mere Physical Suffering is Wrong
-----------------------------------------

The mere physical suffering on the cross which is common to all who have
suffered in such a way is not considered significant in the Biblical
record.

-   The essence of the sacrifice of Christ is the INFINITE suffering of
    his soul under the wrath of God, in which he suffered the equivalent
    of the ETERNITY of Hell in the place of multitudes.

    This was during the 3 hours of darkness and not in the initial stage
    or at the final point of death (more on this below).

    We can hardly begin to conceive of what this was like, even
    slightly. The Scripture only gives us extremely veiled hints of
    this, like Christ's \"Why Hast Thou Forsaken\" quotation of Ps.
    22:1, or the euphemism \"taste death for every man\" in Heb. 2:9.

-   So we can reverently and quite accurately say that the physical
    sufferings in His body, from the scourging and the actual
    crucifixion, were, though horrific, ABSOLUTELY TRIVIAL IN COMPARISON
    to the wrath of God which he suffered. Thus if we concentrate
    primarily on the physical sufferings in the crucifixion, then we are
    completely missing the heart of the true suffering of Christ and the
    centre of the Gospel.

-   Remember the women weeping on the way; as we saw, they were not
    necessarily believers; they felt pity for Christ's physical
    suffering, but not for the sin which took him to the cross.

    We could paraphrase Christ's words in our context: weep not for the
    mere physical suffering of Christ which was common to all men who
    suffer crucifixion, weep rather for our sin which drove Him there,
    and for His suffering of the wrath of God which he endured for sin.

-   The mere physical suffering emphasis is also PAPIST.

    Of course, the MASS is the constantly repeated supreme sacrifice for
    Roman Catholics, and they deny the once-for-all true sufficient
    sacrifice on the cross (against Heb 9:28, etc.).

    This is an anti-Christ: denying that Christ has come in the Flesh
    once for all.

    The RC Rheims Bible (16th C) has a note on the words (Why hast thou
    forsaken me?) in Matt 27:46:

    > Beware of the detestable blasphemy of Calvin and the Calvinists,
    > who do not think that the bodily \[i.e., merely physical\] death
    > of Christ was sufficient, but say that he was also here so
    > forsaken and abandoned of his Father.

    Edersheim notes: the RC presentation is as if Christ were only a
    mere man and only endured mere physical suffering; thus it denies
    the atonement.

    The main RC focus for the crucifixion is on Mary weeping over her
    physically destroyed and defeated DEAD son (like Michelangelo's
    Pieta statue): this is horrible and another form of Mariolatry.

This leads on to the next point.

False Satanic Symbol of the Cross
---------------------------------

Good Booklet on this by MC Ramsay. Here we give Summary of key points
from that, with some others added.

-   Most fundamentally: the symbol of the cross is not commanded in
    Scripture! Violates the Regulative principle.

    It is significant that nowhere in the New Testament is any SIGN of
    the cross referred to. Therefore, any use of it in worship must
    spring from unlawful human invention, not divine authority. This is
    precisely what Paul condemns as 'will worship' (Colossians 2:23).

-   The cross as a symbol has its origin in Satanic paganism. Long
    before the coming of Christ, it was a common heathen symbol almost
    universally adored. It is to be found in so many pagan remains,
    including Egyptian, Assyrian, Babylonian and Roman. BUT: 'Thus saith
    the Lord, Learn not the way of the heathen' (Jeremiah 10:2).

-   We saw that \"the preaching of the CROSS\" is just shorthand for the
    preaching of CHRIST CRUCIFIED, with all that means theologically
    (His sacrificial death). So even though the Romanist \"crucifix\" is
    an abomination, it is more logical than a cross on its own, because
    it at least has Christ.

    Absurd to have a symbolic cross on its own without Christ. Why have
    instrument of torture only? Consider: Cross on necklace, etc.
    \[Compare use of gun\]

-   The Lord's Supper is the divinely commanded way to SHOW the Lord's
    death before he come \[1 Cor 11\]. \"THIS do in remembrance of me.\"

    It is the only ritual given to remember C's death but looks NOTHING
    like death, in particular that of the cross! Only symbolizes
    CHRIST'S body and blood (soul) -- NOT the instrument of torture!

    And it is NOT the mere physical suffering in the body or mere point
    of expiry (departure of soul) which is symbolized; rather the
    suffering of the wrath of God and his soul poured out as an offering
    for sin (like Heb: talks about blood of Christ).

    Even the \"broken body\" is said in Luke 22 to be GIVEN FOR YOU (so
    is atonement, not mere physical suffering common to man).

-   Crosses are images and the Law of God strictly forbids the use of
    images (2nd commandment). 'Little children, keep yourselves from
    idols'.

    \[\[ Hezekiah: 2Ki18:4 He removed the high places, and brake the
    images, and cut down the groves, and brake in pieces the brasen
    serpent that Moses had made: for unto those days the children of
    Israel did burn incense to it: and he called it Nehushtan. \]\]

-   The idolatrous false Church has made a sacred symbol of the cross.
    In Romish churches, crosses are set up and the faithful are
    encouraged to kiss them and to bow the head and bend the knee before
    them.

    But we know that the Reformers were united in their determination to
    rid the church of both crosses and crucifixes.

-   \[\[ Spurgeon wrote: 'There are some who can adore a cross of wood
    or stone or gold; but I cannot conceive of a greater wounding of the
    heart of Christ than to pay reverence to anything in the shape of a
    cross. Methinks the Saviour must say, What! What! I am the Son of
    God, and do they make even Me into an idol!' \]\]

-   Ritual symbols in the Bible are always for invisible spiritual
    things: circumcision (of the heart), Passover (Lamb = C's death),
    Baptism (washing away sins by Spirit internally).

    The whole priesthood of OT looked to Christ as priest (taken up by
    Hebrews), but C's priesthood on the Cross was 100% invisible! If on
    earth, not a priest; priesthood totally invisible and spiritually
    perceived.

    So symbols in the Bible (both OT and NT) are ALWAYS signifying
    invisible spiritual realiites. But a symbol of a cross does not
    signify anything spiritual! That is just a visible physical
    instrument of torture: IT does not signify anything spiritual.

-   NOT just an idolatrous symbol: it is at the heart of the FALSE
    RITUAL of the false church. Crossing oneself is universal and is
    considered to have so much power like the casting of a spell. Satan
    blinds men's eyes by such superstition.

    Orthodox C worse. Russian split in 16th (Old Believers in Russian
    OC: argument over 2 or 3 fingers to used in crossing oneself).

-   Briefly: Crusades (horrible sign used by soldiers while they
    massacred scores in the East). And Symbol of Anti-semitism
    (converted Jews).

-   So the more that Protestants use symbol of the cross, the more it's
    a move to Rome and denial of the death of the Christ, leads to more
    superstition, idolatry, ritualism, etc.

    Significantly, the PCUSA and C of S -- prob the 2 largest and
    liberal nominal Pres churches in the Western World now both use sign
    of the cross on foreheads during baptism, etc.

Why the Crucifixion (MODE OF DEATH) IS VERY SIGNIFICANT AND VERY IMPORTANT
==========================================================================

Divine Purpose: Control and Time for the Sacrifice
--------------------------------------------------

We say \"Death of Christ\" but at the strict death (departure of soul),
the wrath and suffering is all over!

First, Christ was in total control of everything:

> John10:17--18 Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my
> life, that I might take it again.
>
> No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to
> lay it down, and I have power to take it again.

He chose when to leave: when the atonement was done:

> Luke 23:46
>
> Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he
> gave up the ghost.

ALL 4 Gospels carefully say \"HE GAVE UP THE GHOST\", so he actively
chose to end it and depart at that point: he was NOT overtaken by
physical exhaustion etc. Again: TOTAL CONTROL!

So when we say that the \"Death of Christ\" was a sacrifice, we do NOT
mean the strict point of death (departure) when the suffering was over,
but the PROCESS OF DYING leading to that.

Normal CAUSE OF DEATH in crucifixion: slow suffocation and dehydration;
NOT loss of blood or sudden failure of vital organs, as happens in
sudden violent deaths.

So the Extended death was needed for the time needed for the actual
sacrificial suffering for sin (with the wrath of God in His soul); this
was in the Darkness. This was the \"Cup\" which he drank and previously
shrank from in Gethsemane and wanted to avoid: NOT the final departure.

As we said:

> The essence of the sacrifice of Christ is the INFINITE suffering of
> his soul under the wrath of God, in which he suffered the equivalent
> of the ETERNITY of Hell in the place of multitudes (within a finite
> time).
>
> This was during the 3 hours of darkness: where he was FORSAKEN and
> TASTED DEATH for every man.
>
> This was not in the initial stage (where he spoke to others like the
> thief, John, Mary) or at the final point of death.

Compare also that Christ refused the drugged drink: he would keep his
senses completely clear and that was essential for the sacrifice to be
acceptable to God.

So sudden death like common stoning would have allowed none of this. So
the prolonged slow death is critical for the Divine purpose.

Also allowed other fulfilment like: the extended mocking during the
Cross (instead of instant death) and other points below.

NOW ALL FOLLOWING POINTS are to do with the mode of death but the
literal \"cross\" (the shape/form of it) is totally irrelevant. And they
are about CHRIST himself, not about the Instrument of Torture!

Hanging on a Tree: Being Made a Curse for Us
--------------------------------------------

> Deu21:22 And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be
> to be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree: Deu21:23 His body
> shall not remain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt in any wise
> bury him that day; (for he that is hanged is accursed of God;) that
> thy land be not defiled, which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an
> inheritance.

Usual method was stoning (see several cases in Pentateuch) and later use
of the sword (Sam, Kings).

Hanging was not used as a method of execution in Israel, but was only
used to show that the already dead victim was under a curse of God.

The law does not say that a person should be hung: ONLY that if it is
hung then it must be taken down at the end of the day. The reason is
sacral: the offence to God and desecration of the land.

> Josh8:29 And the king of Ai he HANGED on a tree until eventide: and as
> soon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should take his
> carcase down from the tree, and cast it at the entering of the gate of
> the city, and raise thereon a great heap of stones, that remaineth
> unto this day.
>
> Josh10:26 And afterward Joshua smote them \[five kings\], and slew
> them, and HANGED them on five trees: and they were HANGING upon the
> trees until the evening. Josh10:27 And it came to pass at the time of
> the going down of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them
> down off the trees, and cast them into the cave wherein they had been
> hid, and laid great stones in the cave's mouth, which remain until
> this very day.
>
> 2Sm4:12 And David commanded his young men, and they slew them, and cut
> off their hands and their feet, and HANGED them up over the pool in
> Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbosheth, and buried it in the
> sepulchre of Abner in Hebron.
>
> 2Sm21:6 Let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will
> HANG them up unto the LORD in Gibeah of Saul, whom the LORD did
> choose. And the king said, I will give them.
>
> 2Sm21:9 And he delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and
> they HANGED them in the hill before the LORD: and they fell all seven
> together, and were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first
> days, in the beginning of barley harvest.
>
> 2Sm21:12 And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of
> Jonathan his son from the men of Jabeshgilead, which had stolen them
> from the street of Bethshan, where the Philistines had HANGED them,
> when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilboa: 2Sm21:13 And he brought
> up from thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son;
> and they gathered the bones of them that were HANGED.

MAIN APPLICATION BY PAUL (justified by faith through Christ's
sacrifice):

> Gal3:9 So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful
> Abraham.
>
> Gal3:10 For as many as are of the works of the law are under the
> curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in
> all things which are written in the book of the law to do them.
>
> Gal3:11 But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God,
> it is evident: for, The just shall live by faith.

MADE SIN FOR US (2 Cor 5). MADE HIM TO BE SIN (OR ACCURSED).

Give life ransom for many.

Lifted Up: A Public Display with Universal Offer of Mercy
---------------------------------------------------------

Brazen Serpent:

> John3:13--16 And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came
> down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven.
>
> And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the
> Son of man be lifted up:
>
> That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal
> life.
>
> For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that
> whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting
> life.

MAIN argument: lifted up for the purpose of a display SO THAT SO
WHOSOEVER BELIEVETH (as one was healed by the serpent). So is positive
Gospel offer inclued in the Lifting Up (so this aspect is not totally
negative which Hanging on Tree is).

As if he said to N:

> \"As I mention the Son of man, let me rectify that grand mistake of
> yours concerning his kingdom. You expect to see the Messiah raised on
> a magnificent throne and breaking off the Roman yoke from the Jewish
> nation,
>
> But I must assure you that, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the
> wilderness To heal those that were dying by the venom of the fiery
> serpents there; even so must the Son of man be lifted up and then
> publicly exhibited in the preaching of the gospel, that sinners may by
> him receive a far more noble and important cure; even that whosoever
> believeth in him should not perish\".

So all those who look to him, and rely on him by faith, recover
spiritual life and health. The grand point of similitude with the
serpent here is in the manner of performing the cure, that is, by
believing regards to what was lifted up, or raised on high, for that
purpose, by a divine appointment.

Secondly, that the passage strongly implies, that as the wounded
Israelites would have died if they had not looked to the brazen serpent
for a cure, so will men, wounded by sin, original and actual, assuredly
perish, if they do not look to, and believe on Christ.

So here is the same stumblingblock again, Christ is telling Nicodemus
(ruler of the Jews) that Messiah must DIE (be lifted up) as a sacrifice
for sin; this was very strange to the Jews (like the doctrine of the new
Birth which he just covered).

OTHER LIFTED:

> John8:28 Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of
> man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself;
> but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.
>
> \[Read before about DYING Messiah:\]
>
> John12:32 And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men
> unto me. John12:33 This he said, signifying what death he should die.
> John12:34 The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that
> Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be
> lifted up? who is this Son of man?

The same offence: they cannot accept that Messiah would die.

> \[\[ Finally, Paul says this:
>
> > Col2:14 Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against
> > us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it
> > to his cross;
>
> Seems to be using a metaphor as if this were another the formal title
> attached to the cross: a list of all our crimes as nailed to the cross
> (again, he is not literal here because no such nailing happened!) like
> the title placed by Pilate. Again, is placarded. \]\]

So the LIFTING UP is a very public display (like Rom 3: set forth) of
Christ's sacrifical death but with a grand message attached (drawing all
men to me):

Look unto ME and be ye saved, all the ends of the Earth -- a wonderful
offer of mercy to all mankind!

Pierced: Rejected by His Generation YET Not a Bone was Broken: Passover
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Hatred: could have done the common stoning like Stephen (in rage) and
even Paul stoned later in Acts. But hatred and malice drove them:

> John18:30 They answered and said unto him, If he were not a
> malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee. John18:31
> Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according to
> your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to
> put any man to death: John18:32 That the saying of Jesus might be
> fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die.

So John says that the fact that Jews delivered Jesus to Pilate is hugely
significant: it was providentially necessary to lead to the crucifixion
(they intended this only because of their malicious intent but it served
the divine purpose).

TWO PIERCINGS:

### Hands and Feet

Psa22:16 For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have
inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

FIRST: In the middle ages, the Jews corrupted this Hebrew text to avoid
the obvious connection with Christ (like a lion my hands and feet). But
our version is well supported by other ancient versions.

Evildoers are well described as dogs, which, in the East, herding
together, wild and rapacious, are justly objects of great abhorrence.
They are harsh, snarling, fierce, ferocious. Compare the dogs in Phil
(beware of dogs) and Rev 22 (without are dogs).

The assembly of the wicked have enclosed me - That is, they have
surrounded me; they have come around me on all sides so that I might not
escape. So they surrounded the Redeemer in the garden of Gethsemane when
they arrested him and bound him; so they surrounded him when on his
trial before the Sanhedrin and before Pilate; and so they surrounded him
on the cross.

\[\[ Note that the Gospel narratives do not mention actually nailing,
but from John 20 we have this \[pick out expressions\]:

> John20:19 Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the
> week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for
> fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto
> them, Peace be unto you. John20:20 And when he had so said, he shewed
> unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when
> they saw the LORD.
>
> John20:25 The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen
> the LORD. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the
> print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and
> thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe.
>
> John20:27 Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold
> my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and
> be not faithless, but believing.

\]\]

So the wild dogs of the wicked assembly pierced Him in malice.

### Piercing of the Side by Spear

> John19:34 But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and
> forthwith came there out blood and water. John19:35 And he that saw it
> bare record, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith
> true, that ye might believe. John19:36 For these things were done,
> that the scripture should be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be
> broken.

John follows MT accurately, while LXX very inaccurate: \"They shall look
towards me, because they have insulted me.\"

First note: hypocritical punctiliousness, observing the Law about the
Hanging on the Tree; must be taken down before night.

This Zech text quoted here is also found in Revelation 1:7, forming a
link of connection between the Gospel and the Apocalypse. Moreover, it
is most impressive to find that the awful account of the crucifixion in
John closes with a word of promise and hope! So the merciful Lord waits
for the repentance of Israel, of those who, by instigating Roman power
for his destruction, pierced him by their trenchant ingratitude as well
as by the Roman spear.

SO the main SIGNIFICANCE: HATRED and REJECTION by that generation
expressed by the piercing, but they will yet repent.

But we should remember that WE pierced Christ with our sins. So although
that Zech text does apply in the first instance to the Jews and their
general repentance and restoration to come, the general principle of
mourning for sin and how our Saviour had to suffer on the cross for us
applies to us, of course.

### Bone Not Broken

Recall that the major wounds predicted in Is 53 were fulfilled in the
scourging (not the crucifixion).

Then there are the 2 types of piercing.

But despite all this, not a bone was broken!

Of course, there was a type of this in the paschal lamb; also mentioned
in Ps 34.

Main reason: Preserved the Integrity/Dignity of the body. Remained of
wrath restrained. Let us recall:

> 1Cor5:7 Christ our passover is sacrificed for us:

Numbered with the Transgressors: Treated as a Criminal but Grace shown to one Penitent Criminal
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-   Crucified with the thieves: numbered with the transgressors (Is 53);
    if not this mode, then that would not have been fulfilled.

-   Made his grave with the wicked (grave = place of execution here).

-   So being joined with the thieves in His death (not just being lifted
    up) is another very public display that Christ was identified with
    sinners and sin itself.

-   Wonderful opportunity to show mercy to a penitent criminal even when
    dying. Has given encouragement to many when dying.

So let us remember that the Physical Cross Itself and its particular
form or shape have NO importance and let us especially avoid the symbol
of the cross like the plague: touch not the accursed thing!

But let us be grateful to God that there are so many interesting aspects
revealed to us about how important the particular mode of death of his
Son WAS in fulfilling many prophecies and teaching spiritual lessons.

Let us also especially remember how in the Divine Providence, the
particular mode of death allowed the real Sacrifice for Sin to be
achieved in the Period of Darkness. God spared not His Own Son but
delivered Him up for us all.

Praise God for His unspeakable Gift!
